Functions and Limits

What is a function? Does not get directly answered ... instead we are shown what a function does:
Aside: What is a number? (Like '4')
        It's a name used to count any collection that can show a one to one correspondence with the set {a,gg,d,jjj} (as an example)
        
A function assigns to each number in its domain another number.
E.G. f(x) = y where x is a number in f's domain.
NOTE: This is read 'f of x is y'
Another definition -- a functions expresses a relationship between dependent quantities. (Great Courses)

If we say f(x) = x^2 then we are saying that the function f squares f's argument. E.G. F(3) = 3^2 = 9

The domain is all numbers for which the rule (function) makes sense ... this can be narrowed for some purposes as in
  limiting the domain to all positive integers greater that 100 (for example)
 
Example: f(x) = 1/x ... here the domain cannot include the value zero (0)

NOTE: Given a function f, it is true that if f(a) = b and f(a) = c then b = c
        if that is not true then f is not by definition a function


Calculus deals with Change and motion (this is quote from 'Great Courses: 'Change in Motion Calculus` part one'
 Zeno: Paradoxes in Motion (a paradox presents the same situation from two different points of view which lead to opposite conclusions
   An archer fires an arrow and the arrow moves through the air towards its destination yet at any given instant it is in one location
   so how can it be moving?
   Yet is is also true that the arrow does travel a distance proportional to the time it is in the air. The arrow at some infinitely small time does travel
   through an infinitely small distance.
 
A mathematical model is an abstract relationship that corresponds to reality in an effective way (Great Courses)

A Graph describes or viualizes relationships between varying quantities (Great Courses)

Two fundamental Ideas of Calculus (Great Courses)
  1) Derivative -- a way of measuring instantaneous change
  2) Integral -- the accumulation of small pieces that add up to an object
  
  A derivitive is a measure of change
    This time the argument is phrased as a driver defending himself after driving through a stop sign.
    The driver insists that there was an instant when he was at the stop sign and at that instant he was not moving.
    The officer presents information showing that the driver was always moving by calculating the drivers average speed using
      smaller and smaller distances between the stop sign and the other locations the car passed through.
    First example has a constant distance traveled over all time units ... IE the car is traveling at 1 mpm (mile per minute) throughout its path.
    The instantaneous speed is the speed that is approached as you get closer and closer to the instant under investigation
    The above example is showing that the position at time t is t miles
    But what about position at time t is t^2 miles
    so if t is 1.1 the average is 1.21 miles per minute (P(t) = t^2
    and if t is 2 then the average is 4 miles per minute
    At t = 1.01 average is 2.01 miles per minute
    at t - 1,001 average is 2.001 miles per minute
    Note that as t approaches 0 the speed approaches 2 miles per minute
      (speed from 1 to 2 is 3 miles per minute)
So taking the average speeds and observing what it converges to as we take smaller and smaller distances is the derivitive
 at .7 inst. speed is 1.4 milies per minute
 at 1 """"""""""""""""2"""""""""
 at 1.4 """"""""""""2.8""""""""
 at 2 """""""""""""4""""""""""
 at 3 """"""""""""""6""""""""
generalizing: given P(t) = t^2 the instantaneous speed at time t = 2t

The Derivative ... the position at t + delta(t) - position at t divided by delta(t)
(P(t + dt) - P(t))/dt

Next idea.
  a car comes up and kidnaps you and blindfolds you and takes you away (in a straight line)
  you can see the speedometer so you (with your camera) take a video of the spedometer
  after some time you are thrown out of car (camera had a time stamp)
  Where are you?
  We solve this examining the video and analyze in terms of the second idea of calculus
  The simplest would be if the speedometer was constant (eg always 60 miles per hour)
  if you had traveled for an hour you would know your position is 60 miles down the road
  what if it went steady 1 mile per minute for 30 minutes and then instantly went 2 miles for the remaining 30 minutes
  so you went 1*30 + 2*30 or 90 miles per minute
  Suppose you went
  1 mpm (mile per minute) for 0 to 10 minutes
  2 for 10 to 20
  3 for 20 to 30
  4 for 30 to 40
  5 for 40 to 50
  6 for 50 to 60
  Sum distances traveled during each 10 minutes 10 + 20 + 30 + 40 + 50 + 60 = 210
  Now ... what about a varying speed and time
  Suppose camera had a frame rate at 1 per minute
  Sum speedometer readings (60 of them) to get an approximation
  Now what id it was .1 minute per frame (sum for approximation)
  Suppose velocity at time t is going 2*t miles per minute
  Then we sum (suppose 3 minutes ... shorter calculation when summing)
  note: given example
   0 mpm for 0 to .50
   1 for .5 to 1
   2 for 1 to 1.5
   3 for 1.5 to 2
   4 for 2 to 2.5
   5 for 2.5 to 3
  if we use smallest time the approximation will be smaller that real
  if we use larger then the approximation will be larger
  in this case smaller is 7.5 and larger is 10.5
  Suppose table is .1 between intervals instead of .5 
  smaller is 8.7 and larger is 9.3 (getting closer to actual distace travelled (boxing it in))
  Integral v(t) = 2t --> sum(v(ndt)*dt)for n= 0 to total time/dt
  in above example dist = 9 miles
  Integral -- integrating a lot of little pieces
  the resulting table will have these entries
  0 to .5 goes .25 miles
  0 to 1 gets 1
  0 to 1.5 gets 2.25
  0 to 2 gets 4
  0 to 3 gets 9
  pattern is distance traveled from t = 0 to t when velocity is 2t is t^2
  P(t) = t^2
  Integral is second idea of calculus
    summation of parts

Closely related (but not quite inverses0

Next up Fundamental Theorem of Calculus connects the process of the integral with the process of the derivitive
Lesson Four (Great Courses) Taking a break from Coursera to review material in great courses lectures (to get rid of disks))
